README.md, before:

# JetiBox Micro
This is a project to recreate a JetiBox (small Box with display to display sensor data or sensor/device menus from Jeti remote control devices). This project specifically aimed for using a very small display to be able to fit it into a Graupner MC24 instead of the voltmeter/battery meter.
This Jetibox Micro can be used to program sensors or display messages on the receiver (e.g. form TU2-module).

Please note that I am not a skilled developer and the intention is to simply "make it run". The first release (v0.1) is actually not beautiful, but working. Second version is in the works and should be better structured.

## Required hardware
I am not associated with any of the sources I list. Just want to share the specs in an easy way
- Arduino Mini Pro, 5V, 16MHz (e.g. https://www.az-delivery.de/en/products/pro-mini-100-arduino-kompatibel)
- EA DOGM-162LA 2x16 reflective matrix display (e.g. https://www.reichelt.de/lcd-textmodul-48-3-x-12-mm-gelb-gruen-ea-dogm162l-a-p55130.html?&trstct=pos_2&nbc=1)
- 4 buttons (https://www.reichelt.de/kurzhubtaster-6x6mm-hoehe-9-5mm-12v-vertikal-taster-3301b-p27893.html?&nbc=1)
- Some connectors (I used JST-XH connectors)

## Pinning and hardware setup
Take a look at the Arduino sketch for now. All is described in the first comments.

## Hardware and library sources
I am not a skilled developer, so the code is suboptimal. The following are the sources I used for this project.

### HardwareSerial with 9bit support
Thanks to Sherzaad who created the library I used, I could follow-up on this project. You need to copy those to your Arduino folder, where the "core" libraries are located and replace the existing HWSerial files. You will not lose any functionality, but get 9bit support on top.
I got the library from here: 
https://forum.arduino.cc/t/solved-9-bit-serial-problem/496726/5

### DOGM-Arduino library
Officially provided by Display Vision, the manufacture. You can download the libraries and examples from here: 
https://www.lcd-module.com/lcd-tft-code-example-programming/application-note/arduino.html


This is the direct link for the 2x16 displays: 
http://www.lcd-module.de/fileadmin/downloads/development%20service/Arduino/Arduino%20meets%20EA%20DOGM081%20DOGM162%20DOGM163.zip

### Arduino 5V 16MHz (AtMega 328p)
Not associated with AZDelivery, but I used their board from here: 
https://www.az-delivery.de/en/products/pro-mini-100-arduino-kompatibel

### Jeti Telemetry protocol documentation
EX-Bus and Telemetry protocol can be found here: 
https://www.jetimodel.com/support/telemetry-protocol/

Direct link for telemetry protocol documentation: 
https://www.jetimodel.com/support/telemetry-protocol/jeti-telemetry-communication-protocol.html

# Approach on software
Arduino listens on UART port for Jeti Telemetry protocol "Simple Text Messages". They either are sent standalone or come appended to a higher level protocol message. ASCII text is being extracted from the simple text messages (message separator 0xFE) and verified by checking the expected end byte of the message (0xFF). Please note that differences are coming with bit #9 to separate data and message separator - data means bit #9 is low, separator means bit #9 is high.
The message is display in the display after correct detection.
After message is received, the sensor/remote control module pauses for 20ms and reconfigures their UART TX line to RX and is able to receive data. This is, when you can send button interactions. buttons allowed are "up", "down", "left", "right". They can be pushed simultaneously and can be pressed for a short or long time. Button interactions are required to configure e.g. sensors/remote control modules using their JetiBox menu.
While the UART is listening on the telemetry protocol is done via hardware UART, the display is using the hardware SPI interface and the buttons are handled with a separate interrupt service routine on PORTC. The hardware setup is done in a way, that Bit 1-4 of PORTC are representing the buttons states in the required order of the Jeti Telemtry protocol. As such, you just need to shift the bits 4 times to the left, and you already got the required format to send the buttons states back to the sensor/remote control.
I noticed one downside on this approach: if you do simultaneous button presses, they are not detected if both buttons are pressed within the software debounce time (20ms).

Commit message:

Added block schematic png and updated Readme accordingly

README.md, after:

# JetiBox Micro
This is a project to recreate a JetiBox (small Box with display to display sensor data or sensor/device menus from Jeti remote control devices). This project specifically aimed for using a very small display to be able to fit it into a Graupner MC24 instead of the voltmeter/battery meter.
This Jetibox Micro can be used to program sensors or display messages on the receiver (e.g. form TU2-module).

Please note that I am not a skilled developer and the intention is to simply "make it run". The first release (v0.1) is actually not beautiful, but working. Second version is in the works and should be better structured.

## Required hardware
I am not associated with any of the sources I list. Just want to share the specs in an easy way
- Arduino Mini Pro, 5V, 16MHz (e.g. https://www.az-delivery.de/en/products/pro-mini-100-arduino-kompatibel)
- EA DOGM-162LA 2x16 reflective matrix display (e.g. https://www.reichelt.de/lcd-textmodul-48-3-x-12-mm-gelb-gruen-ea-dogm162l-a-p55130.html?&trstct=pos_2&nbc=1)
- 4 buttons (https://www.reichelt.de/kurzhubtaster-6x6mm-hoehe-9-5mm-12v-vertikal-taster-3301b-p27893.html?&nbc=1)
- Some connectors (I used JST-XH connectors)

## Pinning and hardware setup
Take a look at the Arduino sketch for now. All is described in the first comments. A high-level block schematic is this one:
![High-level block-schematic](images/jetibox-micro_pinout)

## Hardware and library sources
I am not a skilled developer, so the code is suboptimal. The following are the sources I used for this project.

### HardwareSerial with 9bit support
Thanks to Sherzaad who created the library I used, I could follow-up on this project. You need to copy those to your Arduino folder, where the "core" libraries are located and replace the existing HWSerial files. You will not lose any functionality, but get 9bit support on top.
I got the library from here: 
https://forum.arduino.cc/t/solved-9-bit-serial-problem/496726/5

### DOGM-Arduino library
Officially provided by Display Vision, the manufacture. You can download the libraries and examples from here: 
https://www.lcd-module.com/lcd-tft-code-example-programming/application-note/arduino.html


This is the direct link for the 2x16 displays: 
http://www.lcd-module.de/fileadmin/downloads/development%20service/Arduino/Arduino%20meets%20EA%20DOGM081%20DOGM162%20DOGM163.zip

### Arduino 5V 16MHz (AtMega 328p)
Not associated with AZDelivery, but I used their board from here: 
https://www.az-delivery.de/en/products/pro-mini-100-arduino-kompatibel

### Jeti Telemetry protocol documentation
EX-Bus and Telemetry protocol can be found here: 
https://www.jetimodel.com/support/telemetry-protocol/

Direct link for telemetry protocol documentation: 
https://www.jetimodel.com/support/telemetry-protocol/jeti-telemetry-communication-protocol.html

# Approach on software
Arduino listens on UART port for Jeti Telemetry protocol "Simple Text Messages". They either are sent standalone or come appended to a higher level protocol message. ASCII text is being extracted from the simple text messages (message separator 0xFE) and verified by checking the expected end byte of the message (0xFF). Please note that differences are coming with bit #9 to separate data and message separator - data means bit #9 is low, separator means bit #9 is high.
The message is display in the display after correct detection.
After message is received, the sensor/remote control module pauses for 20ms and reconfigures their UART TX line to RX and is able to receive data. This is, when you can send button interactions. buttons allowed are "up", "down", "left", "right". They can be pushed simultaneously and can be pressed for a short or long time. Button interactions are required to configure e.g. sensors/remote control modules using their JetiBox menu.
While the UART is listening on the telemetry protocol is done via hardware UART, the display is using the hardware SPI interface and the buttons are handled with a separate interrupt service routine on PORTC. The hardware setup is done in a way, that Bit 1-4 of PORTC are representing the buttons states in the required order of the Jeti Telemtry protocol. As such, you just need to shift the bits 4 times to the left, and you already got the required format to send the buttons states back to the sensor/remote control.
I noticed one downside on this approach: if you do simultaneous button presses, they are not detected if both buttons are pressed within the software debounce time (20ms).
